What Actually Exists
by Rebecca Morton

After I shimmied into these voluminous robes, I made a series of choices.
Tonight, the bartender lines-up a glut of riches, dried limes, dried lemons, borage and violets, pimento-in olives.
I didn’t choose this, you say, as you remove the garnish from your cocktail.
There’s no escaping February, I say and, blue flowers are very rare.
What I can call back into existence is almost nothing.
Did your young father smoke a cigarette on the way to work?
Did your mother wash and dry the household’s brushes and combs each week?
H.D. bemoaned the chef, ate the soup anyway, bemoaned the psychiatric couch, still revealed her dreamscapes.
Haven’t we all scooped a stunned bird off the sidewalk at dusk, woken to a kitchen of feathers
and desperation. Tonight I said things I probably didn’t mean, things I won’t repeat. You
did too. What’s the mind working on when it yields to the body, your hands following the curve
of my hips in the quiet dark, pale cyclamen edging something wilder. Every
icy morning you warm-up the car in the alley, know
I’ll meet you there. It’s usually enough.

Las Cruces, New Mexico
by Megan J. Arlett

Who begged me to be here
beneath fields of open sky,
the earth a griddle top

and the spires of green
not wholly unwelcoming.

We are hand in hand beside an oblong
of water evaporating at a rate of rays.

Too much. Too pleasant.

My favourite dog carves a divot
beneath a piñon tree,
lays down in the cool layer of excavation.

What hand put that tree right there for her
and her right there for me to see

and who once stood here with eyes
on those Organ mountains so like hands reaching

before city and sprawl lay
claim to the dirt and here hummingbirds

take their sips
beside the ants, an endless line from sugar water
to each night

with flashes of light
and the dark’s white rumble.

The fans above our heads
dissipating history and heat.

After 33 minutes, 10 seconds and 200 days of annihilation and more
Mariam Mohammed Al Khateeb | Translated by Sarkawt Sabir

There is no clothesline, there is no warm balcony with sage, there is no scent of mint or olive trees

There is no old kitchen and no wooden table in the middle

And the comb whose bristles were soft and unique is broken

The gray comb that my grandmother used to comb her white hair and braid it every morning

There is no glass for milk, no sounds of the morning call to prayer or the chirping of the birds

My grandmother was a skilled seamstress, sewing in the morning with her sturdy hands, her tiny green eyes, and her bright white teeth

I was always asking—how can my grandma, who is 92 years old, have such white teeth, while my own teeth fall out now and then?

After 94 years, my grandmother, Umm Muawiyah, finally permitted age to put its mark on her

And then she began calling out for her father, though he had left her when she was 15 years old

Her old memories began to form around us

Memories of Bir alSaba, playing with the neighbor girls, making dolls

She had a knack for learning languages

My grandmother was one of the women in the city that never grew old

Until she did, when she brought back the folds of the city from between the folds of her delicate memories 

At the age of 93, she called out to her father in a childlike voice and remembered Bir alSaba well

She was a strong grandmother who always made us sail through her childhood memories from Gaza to Bir alSaba

My grandmother gave her soul and her daffodils to her homeland

And her son, Moataz, who she lost early in her life

Even in her last moments in her memory she was still looking for him

And her son Mohaib was lost and gone

She was a bereaved woman due to her life, memories, and her kids

Grieving those she lost while raising those who remained

She formed a family that extended like the Oak of Palestine

She had more than 77 grandchildren yet she died alone

The occupation burned her alive in her bed next to Al-Shifa hospital

The house that grew mint and the voice of Fairuz

Where 77 grandchildren grew and then scattered around the world

How does a city die?

My grandmother, with those green eyes and white headscarf at 94 years old, the occupation burned her alone